# Tight binding models generated by deep convolutional neural networks

Abstract from my master thesis provides a good and brief description of this project:

" In this work, we employ deep learning techniques to predict the tight binding (TB) parameters of transition metal dichalcogenide monolayers (TMDCs). We train three neural networks on three data sets, generated by three different models. Data sets consist of thousands of labeled electronic band structures. The band structures are generated by finding the eigenvalues of three-band TB Hamiltonian, whose parameters are randomized. We test our networks on separately generated data and the band structure generated by Density Functional Theory calculations. At the first step, our TB model only assumes interactions between the nearest neighbours. It turns out that the network effectively fits to the test data generated by our TB model (**screenshots/test_data_model_1.jpg**). However, the model is too poor to successfully reproduce the bands from DFT method (**screenshots/test_data_model_1_fit_to_MoS2**). Therefore, in the second step, we include the second nearest neighbours in our model. We observe that this significantly improved the shape of our fit to DFT generated data (**screenshots/test_data_model23_fit_to_MoS2**). Still, the value of band gap predicted by our network is not satisfying. In the third step, we decide to train and check the network performance on the other, more complex TB model \cite{liu2013three}. We show that our neural network is able to reproduce the results from the above-mentioned work. "

In file s**creenshots/test_data_model23_fit_to_MoS2.jpg**, the figure Model 3 b) was adopted from (for comparision):
Gui-Bin  Liu,  Wen-Yu  Shan,  Yugui  Yao,  Wang  Yao,  and  Di  Xiao.  Three-band  tight-binding  model  for  monolayers  of  group-vib  transition  metal  dichalcogenides.Phys-ical Review B,  88(8):085433,  2013
